README.md, before:

![Test](https://github.com/michael-lazar/pygopherd/workflows/Test/badge.svg)

README for Pygopherd
===========================================================================

QUICKSTART (Debian)
-------------------

Use the .deb:

dpkg -i pygopherd.deb

or

apt-get install pygopherd

QUICKSTART (non-Debian)
-----------------------

1. Download and install Python 2.2 or above from www.python.org, if not already
   present on your system.

You can run pygopherd either in-place (as a regular user account) or
as a system-wide daemon.  For running in-place, do this:

1. Modify conf/pygopherd.conf:
   * Set usechroot = no
   * Comment out (add a # sign to the start of the line) the 
     pidfile, setuid, and setgid lines
   * Set mimetypes = ./conf/mime.types
   * Set root = to something appropriate.
   * Set port to a number greater than 1024.

2. Modify the first line of executables/pygopherd to reflect
   the location of your Python installation.

3. Invoke pygopherd by running:
   ./executables/pygopherd

For installing:

1. Run python2.2 setup.py install

2. Make sure that the /etc/pygopherd/pygopherd.conf names valid users
   (setuid, setgid) and valid document root (root).

Commit message:

PACKAGE: Update README - in progress

README.md, after:

![[Build](https://github.com/michael-lazar/pygopherd/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/michael-lazar/pygopherd/actions)

# PyGopherd

PyGopherd is a multiprotocol (gopher/gopher+/http/wap) gopher information server.

This repo is a fork of original PyGopherd project to add support for Python 3.

## Project Timeline

From 2002 to 2020, PyGopherd was created and maintained by John Gorzgen.

In 2020, with Python 2 being deprecated upstream and dropped by Debian
and other package managers, John expressed a lack of interest in updating
to code to support Python 3 himself.

In late 2020, Michael Lazar offered to help port the project to Python 3
and modernize the codebase. 

## Documentation

[PyGopherd User Manual](https://michael-lazar.github.io/pygopherd/doc/pygopherd.html)

## Quickstart (debian)

Use the .deb:

```
dpkg -i pygopherd.deb
```

or

```
apt-get install pygopherd
```

## Quickstart (non-debian)

First, download and install Python 3.7 or higher.

You can run pygopherd either in-place (as a regular user account) or
as a system-wide daemon. For running in-place, do this:

TODO
